
I had an idea a few weeks ago that seemed worth trying out,
and have been experimenting with it.

Just like "Flashcards" are meant to help you learn something
in tiny increments, I think "Flashtasks" can be used to
do something large by breaking it down into tiny pieces.

I have a timer that I set (typically) for 7 minutes, for each
Flashtask. That's a small enough amount of time that I can
usually do it, even if I don't actually finish what I wanted
to do.

Strategy:

0) put things on your flashtask list that are *important* before
   you put the things that are just urgent. Do at least one
   flashtask (7 minutes) of hard work on something that you've
   been procrastinating on, before you do anything else. See the
   notes about exercise and getting better at this, below.
1) break a larger task -- e.g. the top item on a "stack" (see
   notes) into things that might take as little as 7 minutes
2) set a timer, and start the top one
   a) if you get done before the timer, stop it and move on
   b) if you don't finish, add a new flashtask -- either next
      on the list, or sometime later.
3) this is kind of like a calendar item more than a todo item,
   since it's a list that you do in order, and its time based
4) the objective is to keep track of how many flashtasks you
   do per day, and try to increase the number over time. 
5) every time you complete one, don't just count it, but also
   raise your arms in the air and say "yes!" or do something
   else physical (dance!) to show your subconscious that it's
   a great thing

Note: I got the domain flashtasks.net so I can do something
just for that, although it might just be a redirect to funtodone
(and both are just part of an open source project, so people
can make their own).

There's another thing I've learned about Flashtasks, which is
that they work best when treated like exercise. Just like you
don't do pushups because pushups needed to be done, but because
you want to get stronger, you should do Flashtasks with the
same intensity.

When you exercise, you don't actually get any stronger if you
if you don't actually exercise, but you also don't get any
stronger until you hit your limit. If you stay in your comfort
zone, you might just as well not have done them.

The attitude to take with Flashtasks is like that too, in a
way. You're not trying to hit a limit, but you're trying to do
just one more when you're ready to stop. You're trying to
increase how many you do over time, how hard you work at them
when you do them, and how important the tasks are that you're
doing.

Ideally, over time you'll start to get a lot of really important
stuff done.

You might think that the main problem with doing everything for only 7 
minutes at a time before you get interrupted with a timer, is that you
never get into a state of "flow". In practice, I find that it's not
very distracting to just restart the timer and add 1 to the count
for a task, so I don't let it force me out of flow if I'm in it.

Update:

Now that I've been trying this for a few weeks, I have a few things
that I've noticed about trying this myself:

1) It's still hard to remember to start the timer, and hard to 
   remember to add things to my list
2) Doing a whole big list up front is almost no different than
   doing a todo list. I think I need to get back to some gamification/
   funtodone aspects, and don't look too far ahead.
3) All the timers for desktop are awful, that I've found, for
   something like this. The regular android clock app is different
   (a LOT different) across my nexus tablet, LG tablet, and Samsung
   phone, but it works OK. It seems to me that a timer really can't
   be THAT hard to do. I wonder if building funtodone in to a fun
   timer app rather than the other way around might be worth exploring?
4) I think I need some large physical reminder of having accomplished
   flashtasks. Or some very obvious screen thing, like a graph, or
   an animated D3 tree structure, or something.

Update 2:

1) I think Flashtasks is only a good idea for things that naturally
   fall into tiny discrete chunks, or that are "ten minute tasks" to
   begin with. Otherwise timing something (assuming I remember to
   actually start the timer) kicks me right out of a flow state. That
   said, there *are* a lot of things that are naturally small, so
   in cases where you only *have* 10 or 20 minutes to do stuff, pulling
   one of these tasks off your list and doing it is a great way to
   still be productive.

2) I think Flashtasks are a whole other category, beyond Stacks, Cycles,
   and Lists. A Flashtask is (a) something that can be completely done
   in ten or so minutes (no timer required), or (b) something that
   requires no thinking to start or resume after a pause. Doing dishes
   might be a good example of the latter, of you have a lot of dishes to do.
